So CSS is a rule-based language.
We define these rules by creating
different styles that should be
applied to a certain element or
a group of elements.
So for example, if we want to select
all heading level ones on our page,
we can do that with the following code.
So we select all h1 headers
with the h1 element selector.
So the selector is followed by
a set of curly brackets, and
inside these curly brackets,
we're gonna write our style rules.
So we call these declarations.
So a declaration is a pair that contains
a property, in this case, color, and
a value, in this case, red.
If we break down this into
the terminology, right,
we've got the selector, which is h1, and
the declaration block again
is the curly brackets.
The declaration is the color red,
that key-value property pair.
And again, color is a type of property and
red is the value for that property.
So what we just saw is
known as a type selector.
It's gonna select all
elements of type heading 1.
Class selectors allow us to assign styles
to elements that contain a specific class
or a set of classes.
So this class selector is noted with
a dot followed by the class name, and
it's used to style multiple
elements that have that class name.
So here we're styling all elements
that have a class of title and
we're changing that color to red.
In this case, it's just the heading one.
We also have ID selectors.
So ID selectors allow you to assign styles
to one element containing a specific ID.
So it's noted with a hash symbol and
it's followed by the ID name.
And again, use the style one
element with that ID name.
So instead of the class of
title on our heading level one,
we've got an ID of title
setting that color to red.
There is also a universal selector, and
this is noted with an asterisk and
it matches any element.
So to make every single element red,
we could write asterisk and
then in the curly brackets color red.
So we can also combine selectors to be
more specific about which element or
elements we want to select.
So what elements are gonna
be selected here?
Does anyone wanna put that
into an English sentence?
>> Paragraph within the body,
all the paragraphs.
>> All the paragraphs
within a body element.
Yeah, that's pretty true.
The caveat is all paragraphs within
an element containing the body class.
So it might not be the body element
if you put that class on a div for
example, right?
But yeah,
it is gonna change that color to blue.
How about this one?
>> It would color all
the paragraph elements
with an ID blue inside of a tag
with a class element body.
>> Yes, exactly right.
So the paragraph with an ID of blue,
that's living inside of an element
containing a class of body, exactly.